# Work with bibtex references in Rd documentation

Work with bibtex references in Rd documentation.

## Usage

``` r
rebib(infile, outfile, ...)

inspect_Rdbib(rdo, force = FALSE, ...)
```

## Arguments

- infile:

  name of the Rd file to update, a character string.

- outfile:

  a filename for the updated Rd object.

- ...:

  further arguments to be passed to
  [`get_bibentries`](https://geobosh.github.io/Rdpack/reference/get_bibentries.md),
  see \`Details'.

- rdo:

  an Rd object.

- force:

  if TRUE, re-insert previously imported references. Otherwise do not
  change such references.

## Details

`inspect_Rdbib` takes an Rd object and processes the references as
specified below.

The user level function is `rebib`. It parses the Rd file `infile`,
calls `inspect_Rdbib` to process the references, and writes the modified
Rd object to file `outfile`. If `outfile` is missing it is set to the
basename of `infile`. If `outfile` is the empty string, `""`, then
`outfile` is set to `infile`.

The default Bibtex file is "REFERENCES.bib" in the current working
directory. Arguments "..." can be used to change the name of the bib
file and its location. Argument `bibfile` can be used to overwrite the
default name of the bib file. Argument `package` can be used to specify
that the bib file should be taken from the root of the installation
directory of package `package`, see
[`get_bibentries`](https://geobosh.github.io/Rdpack/reference/get_bibentries.md)
for details.

The following scheme can be used for incorporation of bibliographic
references from BibTeX files. Note however, that usually it is more
convenient to use the approach based on Rd macros like `\insertRef`, see
[`insert_ref`](https://geobosh.github.io/Rdpack/reference/insert_ref.md)
and the vignette(s).

The Bibtex key for each reference is put in a comment line in the
references section, as in

        \references{
            % bibentry: key1

            % bibentry: key2

            ...
        }

At least one space after the colon, ':', is required, spaces before
"bibentry:" are ignored.

Then run `rebib()` on the file, see the example section for a way to run
`rebib()` on all files in one go.

Each reference is inserted immediately after the comment line specifying
it and a matching comment line marking its end is inserted.

Before inserting a reference, a check for the matching ending line is
made, and if such a line is found, the reference is not inserted. This
means that to add new references it is sufficient to give their keys, as
described above and run the function again. References that are already
there will not be duplicated.

The inserted reference may also be edited, if necessary. As long as the
two comment lines enclosing it are not removed, the reference will not
be overwritten by subsequent calls of the functions described here. Any
text outside the markers delineating references inserted by this
mechanism is left unchanged, including references inserted by other
means.

To include all references from the bib file, the following line can be
used:

        % bibentry:all

Notice that there is no space after the colon in this case. In this case
a marker is put after the last reference and the whole thing is
considered one block. So, if the end marker is present and `force` is
FALSE, none will will be changed. Otherwise, if `force` is TRUE, the
whole block of references will be removed and all references currently
in the bib file will be inserted.

The main purpose of `bibentry:all` is for use in a package overview
file. The reference section in the file "package-package" generated by
[`promptPackageSexpr`](https://geobosh.github.io/Rdpack/reference/promptPackageSexpr.md)
uses this feature (but the user still needs to call `rebib` to insert
the references).

## Value

for `inspect_Rdbib`, the modified Rd object.

`rebib` is used mainly for the side effect of creating a file with the
references updated. It returns the Rd object created by parsing and
modifying the Rd file.

## Author

Georgi N. Boshnakov

## See also

[`insert_ref`](https://geobosh.github.io/Rdpack/reference/insert_ref.md)
and the vignette(s) for the recommended way to import BibTeX references
and citations.

## Examples

``` r
if (FALSE) { # \dontrun{
# update references in all Rd files in the package's 'man' directory
#
rdnames <- dir(path = "./man", pattern=".*[.]Rd$", full.names=TRUE)
lapply(rdnames, function(x) rebib(x, package="Rdpack"))
} # }
```
